okay first I'll start actually with the
stripping still right here I had a local
welder come in and weld this together
for me basically it's a hundred fifty
gallon stripping still I'm doing hot
still
distilling here which means that the
single batch at a time and I'm using two
stills stripping still removes all the
alcohol all the flavor very quickly
let's say probably around a four to six
hour run for the distillation and what
goes in it two to four percent alcohols
coming out at about thirty percent
alcohol and the next day that 150
gallons which is down to about fifty
gallons now we'll go into my copper
spirits still which is a sixty gallon
still this is a recreation of a late
1800s farmhouse still as they would been
used all throughout colonial America
this was made for me by a gentleman
called Colonel Wilson out in Arkansas
who creates stills of anywhere from ten
gallon to two hundred gallon size and
this is a basically it's got two
different heads to it you can see the
head on it now this is a tall head with
a lot of reflux the purified spirits for
Brandy's or anything where I want it to
be a cleaner product but I also have a
concealer there on the wall-mounted
a Kentucky whiskey head which is a
traditional head that you would see if
you ever see photos of old moonshine
distillers that's the type of head that
they would use so this copper still can
actually produce a lot of different
styles of spirits putting in the same
spirit with different heads on and
temperatures I run a tap will actually
produce different flavors then if you've
seen the background we have small
barrels these are all two three and five
gallon barrels and the reason to use
those is that normal 50 53 gallon
American barrel takes anywhere from four
to eight years for let's say a whiskey
to age but because of the greatest
surface area in a smaller barrel that
you can get the same amount of Aging in
about four months in a five gallon
barrel and even less in one of the small
two gallon barrels